All right, so in the last video
I said that we are done
with the loop section, and that
is absolutely correct, we are
done with the loop section.
But I have these two topics which
I want to discuss and I didn't
want to create a fresh new section
just for the two topics, so
I thought it would be bad idea.
So instead I will just introduce
them in the loops itself.
It has nothing to do
in the context of the loop itself.
These are standalone operator,
kind of newly introduced
in the world of Python.
But now we cannot call them as new.
They are pretty much here
for a really long time.
The first one we are going
to talk about is the Walrus.
The second is not even operator,
just the style of writing the code,
especially the Python code.
So the walrus operator, you will
see this quite a lot these days.
It looks like the colon
and an equal sign.
I will give you the entire
history workflow as well as some
of the examples of it.
But first of all, let's
understand, there are certain
things in the Python.
For example, in Python an assignment
like x equals 5, is a statement.
Remember this is a statement,
it sets something,
it doesn't return a value.
An expression on the other hand is
something that returns a value.
For example, if I go ahead and say
three plus three,
this is an expression, so this
actually returns a value.
This is going to return
us the value six.
So, so whoever returns us
a value which consider
that as an expression.
So this is going
to be the output here.
We are just assigning the value,
so it is just a statement.
So always remember that this
will serve us a little
bit purpose in this here.
And now for the Walrus operator
I'll take you on to the code
part because that is much easier
than just discussing it.
Up here I'll create the new
file in the loop itself.
I'll call this one as 09 and we'll
call this one as Walrus Py.
Okay, first of all, let's see
that what happens when we
don't use the walrus again?
Nothing happens, you
just write your code.
Just like that.
For example, let's just say we
have a value 13, it's just a number
and we also want to have
a remainder, so remainder.
So we can pretty much easily
see that if the value is modulus
by 5, we get the remainder,
whatever the value is.
And let's print out
a simple statement.
If we have a remainder,
we want to print this up.
So we'll just go ahead and say print
Just like this, a formatted value
and we'll say if we have a remainder
that means not divisible, obviously
it's not completely divisible.
And we'll say remainder is.
And whatever the value of
remainder that we get, pretty
simple program, no big deal.
I'll comment out a lot of code
in this entire program.
So this is be aware of that part.
I'll go ahead and run the python
with the 09 and we can see not
divisible, the remainder is 3.
Obviously when you divide 13
by 5 you get 3 as a remainder.
Now how can you write
the exact same program when we
have the Walrus operator?
Let's convert this exact same program
and again this is an easy way
select all of them, press control/uh
or command/on a Mac and it
will just comment out everything.
Let's rewrite this exact same program
so we have a value which is 13.
Now previously we calculated
the remainder in a separate line.
Then we tested out remainder.
But here what we can do is I can
just put out this if statement
and then I use a parenthesis
because I'm evaluating something.
An expression will be here.
So I'll just use a variable
directly that says remainder.
And as you can see we cannot
use it, it's giving us error.
But with the help of Walrus operator
I can just use it just like this
and I can say value simply moduled
by 5 and then I can just keep on
writing my code and I can actually
go ahead and use this exact same
line just right here and uncomment
that.
And There we go.
So we can just, we see that
exact same program can be
shrinken down a little bit.
And what we saw that we first
calculated the remainder We found
this expression's value and stored
that into a variable
and then we evaluated the variable.
This all can be done
just right up here.
So this is going to be
an exact expression value?
Yes, this is little bit
shorter version of it.
It works fine.
Let me show you by doing that also.
So if I clean this, run
this again, it says not
divisible, remainder is 3.
So yes, this is a pretty
interesting operator.
Now not only that, through this
operator you can actually work
in a pretty interesting ways.
It's little hard to digest that.
Okay, and by the way, what
happens if you go ahead and just
don't use walrus here?
If I don't use a walrus?
You can see we have
whole syntax error.
Let's see what syntax it says.
It says this was not closed.
Yes, we are closing this.
No problem there.
And you're going to see
the errors are not easy.
Even if I remove this kind of
a thing, you're going to see this is
still not that remainder is not
defined and you cannot actually go
ahead and have the value here.
What are you trying to do?
This is not an allowed
syntax, but with the help
of Walrus Operator, you,
do all the things at once.
Let's just go ahead and read
a little bit of the docs as well.
So I'll just go ahead and move
at the very top and hopefully
I'll be able to search for it.
Can we go ahead and search for it?
Walrus?
Nope.
I guess Google would be
a good one to search for it.
So let's just say walrus and the
reason why I am taking you onto the
documentation website so that you
develop a small habit of seeing what
happens when you study the real
documentation or from the original
documentation.
So it recently came in the Python
3.8 and you're going to see, this
is a walrus, the eyes and the tusk
of a walrus, just like this.
So they have this whole
thing available to us
and you get the idea.
So pretty simple and pretty easy
to work on with and the part
is pretty clear, they mention
it pretty nice and easily.
What we just saw there is
a new syntax that assigns the value
to a variable as a part
of larger expression.
Remember, that's exactly why
I told you this is a statement,
this is an expression.
So notice here, this whole thing is
an expression, not this whole,
this whole thing is an expression.
And this will deliver the value
here in the remainder.
But the moment you actually go ahead
and use a walrus, then you actually
allows it to be used just like that.
All right, so as you can see,
it not only gets that,
but now it gets a value.
So pretty interesting.
And I'll show you some
of the other use cases as well
and you will have fun with this.
So, all right, we'll
keep it as it is.
Let me go ahead and create
another example.
I'll say available sizes.
So you have some of these sizes
available to you, and the first one
is small, then we have medium,
of course, and then we have large.
So these are sizes of T cups maybe.
And then we want to check whether
these are available or not.
And user is requesting this.
So previously what we do, we
create an input variable or
some kind of a way to take
the user input just like that.
But with the help of Walrus
Operator we can actually Go
ahead and shrink this all.
So we can go ahead and call
this one as requested size
or requested size by user.
So I'll just go ahead
and say request size.
And I can use walrus operator here
and use an expression
just like input.
I will take the user input just
here and I will say enter your
chai cup size just like this.
And on top of this, once we have
this requested size, I can actually
go ahead because this whole
thing is going to be evaluated.
Let me just go ahead
and get more space.
And now just here I can use in which
is in checker of available sizes.
And based on this I can just
go ahead and print it,
whatever I want to print.
So for example, I want to print
like this and I will say
serving requested size chai.
That's nice.
And surely I can go ahead
and use an else operator.
If somebody request us something
other than this, we can
just go ahead and say, hey, I want
to print just like this.
And I will say size is unavailable.
And I'll still just want to see that
whether I get the access of this,
requested size here or not.
Obviously I get.
But I just wanted to print this out.
So let's just go ahead and run this.
And it's a pretty interesting one.
Let's go ahead and run this.
It says not divisible
chai is remaining three.
That's from above.
Let's just say I get a chai of test.
Give me a tester.
I enter, it says size
unavailable tester.
Let's run it one more time and let's
just say I ask for a small
chai and say serving small chai.
So you can see it's
a pretty interesting way
of writing the code in itself.
I wouldn't say that it's super
easy to work on with, but hey,
it's a pretty fun way of doing
the things just like that.
So pretty fun to use walrus operator.
Let's go ahead and finally write,
one more interesting
aspect of this and it's going
to be a pretty fun one.
So let's just write one more
of the piece of code for this one.
Let's just say we have flavors,
in our shop we have a lot
of flavors available to us.
One is masala, a lot of teas that
we serve throughout the course.
You might have noticed the theme
that we use, for the chai.
So we have masala, we have ginger,
we have lemon,
my favorite one, and mint as well.
So what I want to do now is
based on the Flavors.
First of all, I want to give
this message to the user.
Hey, these are the available
flavors that we have in front of us.
So I'll just use a classic one
and I will say away.
Label.
Flavors.
Did I wrote it correct?
Absolutely not.
So flavors.
And I've been writing
this all along wrong.
Excuse me for that.
So available flavors.
I can just put up a space
or a colon like that and we can just
go ahead and say flavors.
All right, so we have printed
a message to the user.
Now I want that user should actually,
be stuck in a loop and choose
the only flavor that we showed us.
And we don't get away.
We just keep on asking that, hey,
choose another flavor or this is not
available or something like that.
So we can run an infinite
kind of a loop.
But this time instead of just saying
while true so that it always keeps
on going, what I can do is I can
just go ahead and say, hey, I will
go ahead and say flavor, not
flavors.
And I'll use a walrus operator.
This is going to be fulfilled
by an input value.
And we'll go ahead and say choose
your flavor and we'll
just accept the flavor.
And not only that, we are going
to check it immediately.
Not in flavors.
So there we go.
If it is not in the flavors.
This is a very strange syntax.
I know.
First time it.
It bothers a lot of people that,
yeah, I kind of forget it, but I'm
not fully understanding it.
And that's okay.
Feeling totally okay.
Not a lot of people use this.
So we'll just go ahead and say sorry
and whatever the flavor
you are asking is not available.
Is not available.
If I can write that.
Available.
There we go.
And once we are done with this loop,
we can just get out of it and we
can just print it and we will use
the formatted string just like this.
And we'll say you chose
whatever the flavor he is choosing.
So I still have an axis of this
and we'll just say chai.
Now one thing I want you to pay small
attention here is this is a part
of loop, this line number 28.
But line number 29 is
not part of a loop.
What I usually try to do is
just separate them out a little
bit so that it makes sense.
Okay, this is a loop.
This is outside of a loop.
Again, you can keep it
on the line number 29 as well.
But I don't like it.
So for this part, let's go
ahead and comment out
this whole piece of code.
Don't want extra information
so we just want to see the, walrus
operator working in the loop itself.
Let's go ahead and run this.
I'll clean this.
Run this again.
It says, available flavors are
masala, ginger, lemon and mint.
But somehow I want, maybe.
What else?
Oolong tea.
So I say, sorry, oolong
is not available.
All right, it's okay.
I would choose Masala.
And it says, you chose Masala tea.
And our program exited.
So this is pretty nice
and pretty interesting way
of working through it.
So, as I mentioned, this walrus
operator is just an alternative way
of writing the code.
It just makes your
one line shorter of the code.
You could have taken this input
in the separate line and then
could have evaluated here.
But here you are allowed to take
the input on the go as well,
which is very, very strange for
seasoned Python developers.
But I have to teach it it exists
and I want to discuss that.
So that is it for this video.
Hope you have enjoyed this, and let's
catch up in the next video.